Documentation/access controls ac 5 (#174)
HHS/TANF-app: docs/controls/access_control/ac-05.md

# Access Control
## AC-05 - Separation of Duties

The organization:  
a. Separates [at a minimum, data creation and control, software development and maintenance, and security functions];

b. Documents separation of duties of individuals; and 

c. Defines information system access authorizations to support separation of duties.

### TDP Implementation

**Part a.**  
Software development and maintenance is separated through the following:

> * Developers use GitHub for project planning as well as the hosting site for all code repositories.  Additionally, Circle CI is used for Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery - it automates checks for making sure all automated testing, linting and vulnerability scanning checks pass before committing code to the repository or deploying to any environment.  Finally, Docker is used to set up a code based container environment to ensure the same environment is used during development as it is when deployed to the cloud.  Docker also automates the deploys themselves.  Currently, there are two dev environments (*development* and *vendor staging*) in place. The *development* environment is used for internal vendor team review. The *vendor staging* environment is used for government review.  A staging environment (which could be called *Gov Staging*) and a *production* environment will be set up in future releases.

Reviewer: @hursey013 are you referring to [this spreadsheet](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/file/ACE8538B-82CC-4A42-BE3E-D6CA2A87A129?tenantId=d58addea-5053-4a80-8499-ba4d944910df&fileType=xlsx&objectUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fhhsgov.sharepoint.com%2Fsites%2FTANFDataPortalOFA%2FShared%20Documents%2Fcompliance%2FAccounts.xlsx&baseUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fhhsgov.sharepoint.com%2Fsites%2FTANFDataPortalOFA&serviceName=teams&threadId=19:3658d5183f3e4e648c0304832c1eafc4@thread.skype&groupId=41f194a6-c1d3-4680-933e-c8ee7d17e287)? 

If so, could we go over this spreadsheet?

> * Developers use GitHub for project planning as well as the hosting site for all code repositories.  Additionally, Circle CI is used for Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery - it automates checks for making sure all automated testing, linting and vulnerability scanning checks pass before committing code to the repository or deploying to any environment.  Finally, Docker is used to set up a code based container environment to ensure the same environment is used during development as it is when deployed to the cloud.  Docker also automates the deploys themselves.  Currently, there are two dev environments (*development* and *vendor staging*) in place. The *development* environment is used for internal vendor team review. The *vendor staging* environment is used for government review.  A staging environment (which could be called *Gov Staging*) and a *production* environment will be set up in future releases.

Reviewer: Updated to simplify statement, but need to be reviewed for accuracy.

> * System owner manages the account access. Additionally, System owner provisions a new user account on request.

Reviewer: Yes, I agree.  Who is usually the System Owner?  Would it be the CISO?  ISSO?

> * System owner manages the account access. Additionally, System owner provisions a new user account on request.

Reviewer 2: I would be the system owner

> * System owner manages the account access. Additionally, System owner provisions a new user account on request.

Reviewer: @lfrohlich , what is your official title?

> * System owner manages the account access. Additionally, System owner provisions a new user account on request.

Reviewer 2: Assistant Director, TANF Data Division

> * System owner manages the account access. Additionally, System owner provisions a new user account on request.

Reviewer: @lfrohlich thank you.  Updated system owner.

Data creation, control, and security functions are completed through the TDP application by a user who has been authenticated and is active in the system. These roles include OFA admin and Data Preppers. 

> * Users from the STTs who will be uploading data will have the role Data Preppers.  Data Preppers collect TANF data and transmit final data to OFA through the TANF application.

Reviewer: Copied to Part B.

> * OFA admins have the ability to upload data on behalf of Data Preppers and upload data files locally into the web application. 

Reviewer: Copied to Part B.

* These users cannot provision new accounts and do not have access to the account management functionality.

**Part b.**  

> **Developers**  

Reviewer 3: I think this can also be simplified by explaining developers are granted only enough permission in GitHub and Cloud.gov in order to support their duties.

Reviewer: Updated per comment.

**Users (OFA Admin and Data Preppers)**
  - OFA Admin approves new users, updates profile information, inactivates, and reactivates users (Data Preppers (STTs) do not have access to this)
  - Reads data over assigned region
  - Able to upload and submit new TANF reports, replace and resubmit TANF reports  

**Part c.**   
Granting access to the TDP system is performed by the OFA Admin through a request in the application.  Users request access (and create a profile as part of the request) to be able to submit/view reports in the application.

Access to the TDP system occurs in two different ways: through the Django admin interface and through the TDP application interface.  

***Access to the Django admin interface***  

> Access directly to the Django interface requires the user have the *superuser* and *staff* flags set and assigned permissions based on responsibilities.  

Reviewer 3: How does this relate to the `System owner` role? Which users will have the superuser and staff flags?

Reviewer: Updated based on feedback received from Carl.

# Access Control
## AC-05 - Separation of Duties

The organization:  
a. Separates [at a minimum, data creation and control, software development and maintenance, and security functions];

b. Documents separation of duties of individuals; and 

c. Defines information system access authorizations to support separation of duties.

### TDP Implementation

**Part a.**  
The TANF Data Portal (TDP) system has explicitly defined the roles and responsibilities that accounts perform to operate and maintain the system. This includes data creation and processing, software development, maintenance, and security implementation.

> Every role has flags associated with the account.  These flags are *SuperUser* and *Staff* and are set to *False* by default.  When a new TDP account is created, the OFA Admin has the ability to set the flags to *True* based on the user's job responsibilities.  Note: if an account has the *Staff* flag set to *True*, the account will have access to Django Admin, but will not have access to any of the account management functionality.

Reviewer 3: Should `OFA Admin` be `System Owner` in this paragraph? Otherwise this statement implies that all OFA Admin's can set the Superuser and Staff flags, which doesn't seem like the case based on the following paragraph.

Author: Yes, `OFA Admin` does not have the ability to set those flags. Only the `System Owner`.

Reviewer: Updated to System Owner

Reviewer: Removed system owner and changed to system admin

The TDP system has two roles: OFA Admin and Data Prepper.

>   * OFA Admin has the following abilities: security functionality to manage TDP accounts through Django Admin, upload data on behalf of Data Preppers, upload data files locally into the web application

Reviewer 3: I think I still not be following this. My understanding was that OFA Admins would be able to manage STT Users, not other OFA Admins - is that correct? If so can we specify that rather than saying `manage TDP accounts`?

Author: OFA Admins will have the ability to manage user accounts in the future, except for the accounts of other OFA Admins. Currently, though, The OFA Admin role grants no such ability. That ability is only given by the `is_staff` and `is_superuser` flags, which will only be the Product Owner and Tech Lead for this MVP

Reviewer 3: > That ability is only given by the `is_staff` and `is_superuser` flags, which will only be the Product Owner and Tech Lead for this MVP

So should we remove `manage TDP accounts through Django Admin` from `OFA Admin` here?

Reviewer: removed this statement from this line

>   * OFA Admin *SuperUser* and *Staff* flags are both set to *True*.  This gives the OFA Admin the ability to access Django Admin and access to account management functionality.

Reviewer 3: This seems to conflict with the sentence [below](https://github.com/HHS/TANF-app/pull/174/files#diff-9745bc4113bf26ff62eb6a3bd1d2f33ae9541df4cf562274fe1ab5a95ea13cebR28):
> Other users with the role OFA Admin would not have Staff and SuperUser which separates the System Owner from OFA Admin.

Author: Yes, this is not true. OFA Admin *SuperUser* and *Staff* flags are set to false by default.

Reviewer: Updated to state that the OFA Admin SuperUser and Staff flags set to false by default.

  * Data Prepper *SuperUser* and *Staff* flags are both set to *False*.  Data Preppers do not have access to Django Admin, cannot provision new TDP accounts, and do not have access to the account management functionality.

Developers of the TDP application are responsible for the software development and maintenance of the system.
  * Developers are granted only enough permission in GitHub and Cloud.gov to support their duties.    
  * All code and documentation committed to HHS has to be approved by the Product Manager and the HHS Tech Lead.

The System Owner would have *Staff* and *SuperUser* access along with the OFA Admin role and has the ability to manage TDP accounts, including provisioning new user accounts on request. Other users with the role OFA Admin would not have *Staff* and *SuperUser* which separates the System Owner from OFA Admin.  

**Part b.**  

**Developers**  

> Developers are granted only enough permission in GitHub and Cloud.gov in order to support their duties.  All code and documentation committed to HHS has to be approved by the Product Manager and the HHS Tech Lead.  

Reviewer 3: `Product Manager` is not a role we've defined, I believe this should be `Product Owner`.

Reviewer: updated to Product Owner

Reviewer: Looking at this again...should this be System Owner?  I think this is the first time I introduce Product Owner.

**Users (OFA Admin and Data Preppers)**
The OFA Admin approves new users, updates profile information, deactivates, and reactivates users (Data Preppers (STTs) do not have access to this).  Additionally, OFA admins have the ability to upload data on behalf of Data Preppers and upload data files locally into the web application. 

> Users from the states, tribes, and territories (STT) who will be uploading data will have the role Data Preppers.  Data Preppers collect TANF data and transmit final data to OFA through the TANF application.  Data Preppers reads data over assigned region and are able to upload and submit new TANF reports, replace and resubmit TANF reports. 

Reviewer 2: Real STT users will not have access in the OFA MVP

> Users from the states, tribes, and territories (STT) who will be uploading data will have the role Data Preppers.  Data Preppers collect TANF data and transmit final data to OFA through the TANF application.  Data Preppers reads data over assigned region and are able to upload and submit new TANF reports, replace and resubmit TANF reports. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users from the states, tribes, and territories (STT) who will be uploading data will have the role Data Preppers.  For the OFA MVP, STT will not have access to the TDP system, but OFA Admin will act as Data Prepper roles. Data Preppers  are able to upload new TANF reports, replace and resubmit TANF reports, and download their uploaded reports. 
```

**Part c.**   

> To gain access to the TDP system, users must first create an account at Login.gov.  By creating an account in Login.gov, the user's profile is created and they have access to the TDP system.  After they are authenticated with Login.gov, the user is redirected to the TDP frontend landing page.  Once a user is logged into the TDP system, they can request user functionality by submitting a request.  The OFA Admin receives the request and grants the user the appropriate permissions based on their job responsibilities.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To gain access to the TDP system, users must first create an account at Login.gov.  By creating an account in Login.gov, the user's profile is created within TDP and they have access to the TDP system without user functionality.  After they are authenticated with Login.gov, the user is redirected to the TDP frontend landing page.  Once a user is logged into the TDP system, they can request user functionality by submitting their information through the request form.  The OFA Admin can view the request through the Django Admin and grants the user the appropriate permissions based on their job responsibilities.  
```

> ***Access to the Django admin interface***  

Reviewer 3: Line 44 through the end of the doc feel unnecessary since we've covered these details already in the previous sections. For conciseness, what do you think about removing `Access to the Django admin interface` and `Access to the TDP system`?

Reviewer: I agree.  Removed both of these sections.
